#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Diffraction with a Single Slit
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
David Cai
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Single slit diffraction demonstrates the wave-particle duality of light.
 Depending on both the wavelength of the light and the width of the slit,
 interference patterns with peaks of different amplitudes are formed at
 angle 
\begin_inset Formula $sin(\delta\theta)=\frac{\lambda}{d}$
\end_inset

 apart, where 
\begin_inset Formula $d$
\end_inset

 describes the width of the slit.
 Depending on 
\begin_inset Formula $\lambda$
\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset Formula $d$
\end_inset

, small angle approximation might be used.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Materials and methods 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Brief description
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In general He-NE laser with a narrow waveband 632.8 nm is used to approximate
 a monochromatic source.
 Ideally, a prism or a spatial filter is used in order to reduce the aberration
 of the source.
 We omit the source cleaning procedure in this lab since the quality of
 our light source is good.
 The laser beam passes through the first filter to coarsely filter the source.
 The light then passes through another filter with narrower width such that
 we get our final diffraction pattern on the viewing screen or the photon
 detector.
 The viewing screen or the photo detector is installed on the right-end
 of the table such that the diffracted angle can be measured more precisely,
 under the assumption that our source is close to a monochromatic source.
 
\series bold
Verify that whether we do need the first slit or not.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Equipment 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
HeNe laser; Calibration tool; Optical Breadboard Table; Optical filter or
 prism on appropriate holders with micro-adjustment; Coarse slit on a film;
 Fine, variable slit (around 100 μm); viewing screen; Photo Detector with
 a coarse slit installed in front.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Setup 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Regarding the length limitation of the table, we install the laser on the
 far left-end of the table.
 Calibration of the laser then need to be done both vertically and then
 horizontally, according to manual, or use the ThorLab alignment tool.
 First slit should be installed perpendicular to the light path around 30cm
 away from the source.
 The second slit should then follow closely at around 3-5cm away.
 Place the viewing screen on the far right end of the table such that we
 measure 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Error Analysis
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The uncertainties come from the width of laser, the width of the slit, distance
 between the slit and the detector/ viewing screen, the transverse length
 the detector has moved, 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Data Analysis Bandwidth theorem is used, referring to Lab Manual of optical
 pumping experiment.
 We combine this into our calculation.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Data Analysis
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Goals
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Verify that the wavelength 
\begin_inset Formula $\lambda$
\end_inset

 is indeed 632.8 nm.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Verify that the amplitude equation (integral form) based on Fresnel equation
 agrees with our finding.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
